
-- Assesment Test 

1 -How can you retrieve all the information from the cd.facilities table?

	select * from cd.facilities 

2- You want to print out a list of all of the facilities and their cost to members. How would you retrieve a list of only facility names and costs?
	select f.name ,f.membercost from cd.facilities f 


3-How can you produce a list of facilities that charge a fee to members?
	select * from cd.facilities f 
	where membercost !=0
	
4- How can you produce a list of facilities that charge a fee to members, and that fee is less than 1/50th of the monthly maintenance cost? Return the facid, facility name, member cost, and monthly maintenance of the facilities in question.
		select f.facid , f.name , f.membercost , f.monthlymaintenance  from cd.facilities f 
		where membercost != 0  and  membercost<= monthlymaintenance /50;


5- How can you produce a list of all facilities with the word 'Tennis' in their name?
		
		select * from cd.facilities f 
		where name LIKE '%Tennis%';
   
   

6- How can you retrieve the details of facilities with ID 1 and 5? Try to do it without using the OR operator.
		
		select * from cd.facilities
		where facid IN (1,5);
		
7- How can you produce a list of members who joined after the start of September 2012? Return the memid, surname, firstname, and joindate of the members in question.

		select m.memid , m.firstname , m.surname , m.joindate from cd.members as m 
		where joindate > '2012-09-12';
		
8- How can you produce an ordered list of the first 10 surnames in the members table? The list must not contain duplicates.
		
		select m.surname from cd.members as m
		order by surname ASC 
		limit 10 
		
9- You'd like to get the signup date of your last member. How can you retrieve this information?
		select m.joindate from cd.members as m
		oreder by joindate DESC  
		limit 1 
10- Produce a count of the number of facilities that have a cost to guests of 10 or more.
		select count(*) from cd.facilities 
		where guestscost >= 10; 
		
11- Produce a list of the total number of slots booked per facility in the month of September 2012. Produce an output table consisting of facility id and slots, sorted by the number of slots.

		select b.facid , sum(b.slots) as total_slot from cd.booking b 
		where b.startime >= '2012-09-01' AND b.startime < '2012-10-01'
		group by facid
		order by total_slot ASC
		
		
12 - Produce a list of facilities with more than 1000 slots booked. Produce an output table consisting of facility id and total slots, sorted by facility id.

		select f.facid, sum(b.slots) from cd.facilities f
		inner join cd.booking b
		on b.facid = f.facid
		group by f.facid
		having sum(b.slots)>1000
		order by f.facid
		
		
13 - How can you produce a list of the start times for bookings for tennis courts, for the date '2012-09-21'? Return a list of start time and facility name pairings, ordered by the time.
		
		select f.name , b.startime from cd.facilities f 
		inner join cd.bookings b
		on b.facid = f.facid
		where f.name like '%Tennis Court%'
		and b.startime::date = '2012 - 09 -21'
		
14 - How can you produce a list of the start times for bookings by members named 'David Farrell'? 
		
		select * from cd.members m 
		inner join cd.bookings b
		on m.memid = b.memid
		where m.name = 'David' and m.surname = 'Farrell'